[Music]
the rain in Spain stays mainly in the
plain
that's because in the olden days of air
travel a conductor would walk down the
aisles collecting tickets and two lady
passengers he would ask where's my fair
lady actually none of that is true
but we're talking about airplanes today
so if the rain in Spain does stay mainly
in the plain
well then you'd have a pretty soggy trip
meanwhile have you ever wondered if
there are things an airplane simply
can't or won't do it turns out that
airplanes have strict rules regarding
their pathways in the sky for safety
reasons and for the sake of staying
friendly with continental neighbors
some of the places they're not allowed
to fly over might surprise you
number one planes won't fly over
Antarctica due to the windy and snowy
conditions of the Antarctic Mountains
this area is more prone to wideouts the
pilot wouldn't be able to see it all
also in the event of an emergency
landing in Antarctica or it's mountains
would expose passengers to some pretty
harsh freezing conditions and rough
terrain that mountain terrain isn't
exactly landing friendly either plus the
Penguins won't like it
number two planes won't fly directly
over the Earth's poles the Earth's North
Pole has super strong magnetic fields
that are constantly changing their reach
and direction can change by miles a year
why is this such a big deal for pilots
well if the magnetic field has moved
True North might look different to the
pilot than what it actually is making it
difficult for them to find the correct
runway the rules for navigation might
fly completely out the window
airports name the runways according to
how far off true north they are if a
strong magnetic field like the one that
the North Pole has has made a big
movement and causes the pilot to adjust
his navigation from true north he may
not know if he's headed to land on the
correct runway sounds like a recipe for
flight delays and it gets better because
airports named the runways according to
health
are off TrueNorth they are in the number
of degrees reports from pilots of
movements in the magnetic field may
cause the airport to rename the runway
the difference of a couple of degrees
isn't a big deal but incorrectly
renaming a runway has had disastrous
consequences before like incorrect or
unsafe landings situations like these
are very rare
but it's a good idea for pilots to just
avoid those poles and magnetic fields
three airplanes won't fly over the
Pacific Ocean well it's not really true
that they won't per se it's because
there's a shorter route say you're
flying from North America to Asia due to
the Earth's fear achill shape the
shortest route between point a and point
B is actually in a north to south
direction instead of east to west if
you're traveling from North America to
Asia is generally faster to fly over our
European and Middle Eastern friends
rather than cross over the entire
Pacific Ocean
number four planes won't fly over Tibet
this is largely due to the Himalayan
mountains first if a plane has to land
in an emergency situation Mountains
aren't exactly the ideal impromptu
runway know what I mean
secondly if a plane did manage to land
in the mountains there's no doubt that
it's a pretty rough terrain for
passengers to cope with while waiting
for help and the mountains would no
doubt cause serious damage to the
aircraft most importantly it has to do
with altitude the Himalayas reaches one
of the highest altitudes in the world if
a plane starts losing cabin pressure the
pilot is supposed to descend to an
altitude where the air in the cabin
becomes breathable again this is hard to
do if you're flying among super high
altitude unforgiving mountains like the
Himalayas number five they won't fly
over the city of Mecca the simplest
reason here is that there's no Airport
in Mecca the next city over isn't that
far away so there's no need to spend the
millions of dollars it would take to
construct an airport secondly there's a
strong magnetic field in Mecca as
mentioned earlier a magnetic field can
cause navigational problems for pilots 6
they can't take off when it's too hot
recently in Phoenix Arizona more than 40
flights were cancelled because it was
too high
Arizona is already a pretty hot place
but when it's too high the plane simply
can't get enough lift quick science
lesson airplane wings are shaped to make
the air move faster over the top of the
way so the pressure of the air decreases
when the pressure on the top of the wing
is less than the pressure on the bottom
of the wing it creates a force called
lift on the wing that pulls it and the
plane up into the air but when it's too
hot the air density is lower which
increases the needed runway speed to get
air flowing over the wings to create
enough lift for takeoff so we'll just
sit this one out seven planes can't fly
over George Washington's house located
in Mount Vernon Virginia the house of
the first President of the United States
is still standing although it's seen a
lot of wear and tear over a few
centuries it was built in the late 1700s
after all it's considered a national
historic landmark so to prevent further
damage to the historic home even from
air vibrations in the sky the airspace
above George and Martha's house was
declared a no-fly zone eight Disney
World and Disneyland for safety reasons
temporary airspace restrictions are
sometimes put in place above areas where
there's going to be a ton of people so
no one would get hurt in case a plane
needs to make a surprise landing for
instance
temporary air restrictions are placed
every year over the Superbowl but what
place draws bigger crowds than the
happiest place on earth in 2003
the Disney Corporation put temporary
no-fly zones over both their parks which
caused a ton of money by the way but
somehow they just stuck so to this day
the airspace over Walt Disney World and
Disneyland is a no flaw
zone number nine pantex nuclear facility
this nuclear plant is located in
Amarillo Texas and it basically keeps
all of the US as nuclear material safe
but they also have some old you probably
don't want to move it around too much
type of materials leftover from past
conflicts therefore there's a wide
no-fly zone around and above the
facility we don't want any accidental
booms number 10 Camp David sounds
ordinary right well don't let the simple
name fool you formerly known as the
Naval Support Facility Thurmont it's a
bit of sacred place for US presidents a
lot of important people have come and
still come to visit this place and have
meetings where many international
agreements have been signed located in
Thurmont Maryland President Franklin D
Roosevelt started the tradition of
holding important meetings here in the
1950s President Dwight Eisenhower
renamed the retreat Camp David after his
grandson due to the many presidents and
worldwide VIPs that visit Camp David the
airspace above the whole compound is a
no-fly zone for safety reasons number
eleven Kennedy Space Center of course he
can't fly over the Space Center unless
you want to collide with a rocket now
just kidding but there are some pretty
obvious reasons why the Kennedy Space
Center in Florida is a no-fly zone one
reason is the big crowds space fanatics
all over the US and even the world come
to the Kennedy Space Center to watch
Rockets launch into space the other
reason is that there is a lot of NASA
and US Air Force activity that goes on
here pretty important work so safety for
all parties is the top priority twelve
area 51 okay everybody knows about this
mysterious and fabled place right aliens
UFOs unexplainable events but that's a
whole other video the interesting thing
about the restrictions on the airspace
above the whole area is that it's a
no-fly zone for
civilian aircrafts and military ones
where the actual area 51 is isn't really
known so it's attributed to a pretty big
stretch of Nevada desert the fascinating
point here is that the whole area is a
no-fly zone but we don't know exactly
why number 13 Buckingham Palace located
in London England Buckingham Palace is
known as one of the most important and
recognizable historical landmarks in the
world home to the Queen of England and
all of her administration and staff it's
obviously an important building to the
British public and British government to
protect there are also many frequent
important visitors to the palace whose
safety should be considered Buckingham
Palace is meant to protect the Queen and
the royal family
so of course a no-fly zone was
established above it 14 the Taj Mahal
it's one of India's most beautiful and
recognizable pieces of architecture
completed in 1653 the Taj Mahal draws
thousands of tourists each year in 1983
it was recognized as a world heritage
site the indian government placed a
no-fly zone above the area of the Taj
Mahal in 2006 to safeguard this
important historical building and the
many tourists who come to witness its
majesty now how about you do you know
any interesting facts about what
airplanes can't or won't do if so let me
know down in the comments if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go refusing to fly over
something just yet we've got over 2,000
cool videos for you to land on just
click to the left or right remember stay
on the bright side of life
[Music]